docs(features): Add single instance page (#1931)
tauri-apps/tauri-docs: src/content/docs/features/single-instance.mdx

---
title: Single Instance
description: Plugin to ensure that a single instance of your tauri app is running at a time.
---

import PluginLinks from '@components/PluginLinks.astro';
import { Tabs, TabItem, Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import CommandTabs from '@components/CommandTabs.astro';

<PluginLinks plugin="single-instance" showJsLinks={false} />

Plugin to ensure that a single instance of your tauri app is running at a time.

## Setup

> We can install and initialize the Single Instance Plugin in one of the two ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install the single-instance plugin to get started.
```
Following the other guides pattern:
"Install the http plugin to get started."
"Install the dialog plugin to get started."

<Tabs>
    <TabItem label="Automatic">

>     We can simply use [`tauri add`](/references/v2/cli/#add) to automatically install as well as initialize the plugin with your Tauri Application.

Reviewer: While the other guides pattern is `"Use your project’s package manager to add the dependency:"` I think that having a reference to the tauri add command may be a good idea, but ofc this would have to be agreed and changed throughout all the guides

    <CommandTabs npm="npm run tauri add single-instance"
    yarn="yarn run tauri add single-instance"
    pnpm="pnpm tauri add single-instance"
    cargo="cargo tauri add single-instance" />

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem label="Manual">
    <Steps> 
    <ol>

>       We also have the option to manually install and initialize the plugin. To do so, we need to follow two simple steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Following other guides "Manual setup" there's no need to state this, and usually is not necessary to say how hard or easy something is.

---
title: Single Instance
description: Plugin to ensure that a single instance of your tauri app is running at a time.
---

import PluginLinks from '@components/PluginLinks.astro';
import { Tabs, TabItem } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

<PluginLinks plugin="single-instance" showJsLinks={false} />

Plugin to ensure that a single instance of your tauri app is running at a time.

## Install

_This plugin requires a Rust version of at least **1.75**_

You can install the Core plugin by adding the following to your `Cargo.toml` file:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="crates.io">
```toml title="src-tauri/Cargo.toml" ins={2}
[dependencies]
tauri-plugin-single-instance = "2.0.0-beta"
```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Git">

```toml title="src-tauri/Cargo.toml" ins={2}
[dependencies]
tauri-plugin-single-instance = { git = "https://github.com/tauri-apps/plugins-workspace", branch = "v2" }
```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Usage

> To use this plugin, you need to register the core plugin with Tauri. The plugin init() method takes a closure that is called when a new app instance was started, but closed by the plugin. The closure has three arguments: the AppHandle, the list of arguments (important for instance on deep link usage) and the current working directory:

Reviewer: (multiple comments, read them all before making changes)

Could you reword a bit this section to make it clearer? Imagine than non Rust (or beginner level) devs will eventually read this. Also, originally the features guides in general are to be recipes (doesn't help that the name we use internally is 'guide') https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri-docs/blob/next/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md#recipe. I asked on discord for clarification, but I believe it should so.

Feel free to play around, just throwing out ideas to improve.

To follow the docs pattern, what do you thing of adding a Permission section (as other guides have) but say that it doesn't need any setup or something along this lines?

> To use this plugin, you need to register the core plugin with Tauri. The plugin init() method takes a closure that is called when a new app instance was started, but closed by the plugin. The closure has three arguments: the AppHandle, the list of arguments (important for instance on deep link usage) and the current working directory:

Reviewer: > (important for instance on deep link usage)

as this is being mentioned, it could be explained why in a [aside](https://starlight.astro.build/guides/authoring-content/#note-aside), without diving too much. Since this was Lucas' suggestions, I'll tag him to give us a hand @lucasfernog could you help on these?

> the plugin takes a closure that is called when a new app instance was started, but closed by the plugin

this is a byte ambiguous

> To use this plugin, you need to register the core plugin with Tauri. The plugin init() method takes a closure that is called when a new app instance was started, but closed by the plugin. The closure has three arguments: the AppHandle, the list of arguments (important for instance on deep link usage) and the current working directory:

Reviewer: General idea (you can use [Starlight steps ](https://starlight.astro.build/guides/components/#steps)component) if you choose to do like this

## Usage

1. register the core plugin with Tauri. 

_// show how_

2. the plugin takes a closure that is called when a new app instance was started, but closed by the plugin. It has three arguments: 
  - app, being the AppHandle, 
  - args: the list of arguments 
  - cwd the current working directory (what should it default to?)

:::note
why args is important for instance on deep link usage
:::

_// maybe show only the line highlighting `app, agrs, cwd`
// .plugin(tauri_plugin_single_instance::init(|app, args, cwd| {}))_
```

---
title: Single Instance
description: Plugin to ensure that a single instance of your tauri app is running at a time.
---

import PluginLinks from '@components/PluginLinks.astro';
import { Tabs, TabItem } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

<PluginLinks plugin="single-instance" showJsLinks={false} />

Plugin to ensure that a single instance of your tauri app is running at a time.

## Install

_This plugin requires a Rust version of at least **1.75**_

You can install the Core plugin by adding the following to your `Cargo.toml` file:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="crates.io">
```toml title="src-tauri/Cargo.toml" ins={2}
[dependencies]
tauri-plugin-single-instance = "2.0.0-beta"
```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Git">

```toml title="src-tauri/Cargo.toml" ins={2}
[dependencies]
tauri-plugin-single-instance = { git = "https://github.com/tauri-apps/plugins-workspace", branch = "v2" }
```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Usage

> To use this plugin, you need to register the core plugin with Tauri:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use this plugin, you need to register the core plugin with Tauri. The plugin init() method takes a closure that is called when a new app instance was started, but closed by the plugin. The closure has three arguments: the AppHandle, the list of arguments (important for instance on deep link usage) and the current working directory:
```

> ```rust title="src-tauri/src/main.rs" ins={4}
> fn main() {
>     tauri::Builder::default()
>         .plugin(tauri_plugin_shell::init())
>         .plugin(tauri_plugin_single_instance::init(|_, _, _| {}))
>         .invoke_handler(tauri::generate_handler![greet])
>         .run(tauri::generate_context!())
>         .expect("error while running tauri application");
> }
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```rust title="src-tauri/src/lib.rs" ins={4}
#[cfg_attr(mobile, tauri::mobile_entry_point)]
pub fn run() {
    tauri::Builder::default()
        // Initialize the plugin
        .plugin(tauri_plugin_single_instance::init(|app, args, cwd| {}))
        .run(tauri::generate_context!())
        .expect("error while running tauri application");
}
```
```

Author: I guess `#[cfg_attr(mobile, tauri::mobile_entry_point)]` is not necessary for this example. Adapted other suggestions.

Thanks a lot for suggesting :blush:

Reviewer 2: it's a different file too

### Focusing on New Instance

> By default, nothing happens if you open a new instance and another instance is already running. To focus the Window of already running instance when user tries to open a new instance:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default nothing happens when you start a new instance and the application is already running. To focus the window of the running instance when user tries to open a new instance, change the callback closure:
```

> ```rust title="src-tauri/src/main.rs" {1} {6-8} {14-23}
> use tauri::{AppHandle, Manager};
> 
> fn main() {
>     tauri::Builder::default()
>         .plugin(tauri_plugin_shell::init())
>         .plugin(tauri_plugin_single_instance::init(|app, _, _| {
>             let _ = show_window(app);
>         }))
>         .invoke_handler(tauri::generate_handler![greet])
>         .run(tauri::generate_context!())
>         .expect("error while running tauri application");
> }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```rust title="src-tauri/src/lib.rs" {1} {6-8} {14-23}
use tauri::{AppHandle, Manager};

#[cfg_attr(mobile, tauri::mobile_entry_point)]
pub fn run() {
    tauri::Builder::default()
        .plugin(tauri_plugin_single_instance::init(|app, args, cwd| {
            let _ = show_window(app);
        }))
        .run(tauri::generate_context!())
        .expect("error while running tauri application");
}
```
